In our next project in the next conflict there's a special key we can add.
And that's the server middleware.
No this is not to be confused with the average middle where we have a middleware folder does server
middleware is a collection of node and express compatible middleware is that will be executed prior
to the next rendering process.
So here we can register any express middleware that we want to run first including our own one and that
is something I quickly want to show you for that or create a new folder.
The let's say API folder in which I'll create a new fall index J.S. in this file we can write our own
Express code and forget all first of all install express or quit the development server and run NPM
install dash dash save express we'll install the Express framework with that installed we can work on
that API file and all first of all import express with denote required syntax.
We have to use that syntax instead of the import syntax you know from the front end because this will
now really be executed by node in node only understands this syntax.
I don't want to use the express routers all execute express router like this.
And if this is all new to you I strongly recommend diving into Xpress coords into a node express course
if you want to learn more about that because in discours I won't focus on that.
It's really just a side thing something I want to mention not the core idea behind next.
So this is our own route set up and what we can do now is we can create our own route.
Here let's say a post wrote that post route could be track data something like Det.
Let's say one to write our own analytics data to our own database.
Does a default express route where we get the request and response and where we didn't and that's the
cool thing.
Can execute any server side code.
I'll show you how to implement this such that it gets loaded prior to your next rendering process.
But then it's really decoupled from that and therefore here you could import mongooses and connect to
your own database and store data in your own database.
Here you can run any code you want.
You can even implement your own API with all kinds of different back and you or else you can send data
to you can send requests to and your own authentication and at the end of this module you'll also find
a link to an example where a complete session based off indication is implemented with that approach.
But back to this.
Here we have this post router's setting up slash track data and then there I just want to console log
stored data here and I want to store the data which I get from the request body.
Let's say we expect a data field there thereafter express style.
I'll send a response with status code 200 and maybe adjacent object where I have a message which is
success.
Know for this to work I actually need to do two things.
The first is I need to install a body parts or middleware that gives us access to request body just
as we need to do it in a normal Express.
So I'll run NPM install dash dash save body dash parser.
This is now an additional express middleware which gets installed which I will add in my next conflict
server middleware IRET.
So to the array of malwares that should be executed for data.
First of all need to install it here.
So install body parser by requiring body parser.
And that's important in this next config file.
You also need to use that required import syntax because this will be executed by node 2.
Now what the body parser installed and imported we can go down to that server middleware array and the
middleware is listed here will be executed from top to bottom.
So here we can simply add body parser Jason to parse in-coming Jason bodies and add them to that body
field on the incoming request object.
There's second thing I need to do is I need to transform my incoming request data because it has the
wrong format for this.
You can find a little snippet attached to this video.
This one and this will just instantiate an express app and then take the incoming request and response
data and map it to the API provided by express so that we can you see exact same syntax as Express provides
it.
So to address stators and Jason works correctly now that everything is set up here we now need to export
our route and since we're in a node J.S. environment we need to Dudas with Module exports and sell it
equal to a javascript object where we actually define a payoff under which we can reach the route's
of defined here.
And that could be a slash API.
So Tractatus then reached by sending a request to slash API slash track data and the handler should
be our router with a lowercase are.
So this router with that we export to functionality from that file.
And now we just have to add this export that middleware which it is in the end.
So that router with our register routes we have to add it to our array of malwares we execute.
So below the body parser I'll add a string with a pop to the middle where I want to add and that simply
is till the slash API the slash index can be omitted because it will look for an index file automatically.
This will now hook in our own routes our own middleware server side middleware.
I should say now we can restart NPM run death and in the next lecture I will show you how to use that
middleware from within your next application.